How cookies can be used to store information on you 
Cookies are text documents containing information of the user from the browser. The reason why cookies were created was to improve
the user experience.  The use of cookies allows the browser to remember things like the features users set when they last visited a site. 
This can include log in preferences, language preferences, and more. Cookies can contain whatever information the creator of the cookie 
wants, so there is a wide variety of possibilities. 

I think the positives and negatives of cookie use, as well as the issue of “is it ethical” is ambiguous and everyone 
will have their own views

For example, I recently did a usability think aloud study on Moodle. The person we interviewed used our computer and was very much not 
happy when the browser signed him back into Moodle after the interview had concluded. This issue is a difficult issue to take a stance 
on, because this seems like something most users would like, having the browser remember login information should simplify future 
experiences. But in this case, there was one person who was very bothered by it. 

Cookies can be used to store pretty much any type of information. I think that people may have a negative perception of cookies based 
in the fact that usually they don’t know what information the cookie contains. I know people who feel like cookies are spying on them. 
I think that people also don’t realize that cookies have a limit to how much information can be stored, and that there is an expiration 
for some cookies. Also, I think people’s negative perception of cookies comes from them thinking that their name and identity is 
associated with their cookies, not an anonymous profile. 

But I think cookies are just trying to create a more personalized, streamlined experience. There are things users don’t realize cookies 
remember about them that they would be very frustrated to have to enter every single time they reopened or refreshed their web browser. 

Also, in regards to cookies being used for targeted advertisements. I think we live in a place today where business have the technology 
to do pretty much whatever they want to make money. Personally, I’d rather get advertisements tailored to me. Recently, I’ve been seeing 
a lot of advertisements for a concert I actually wanted to go to and didn’t realize tickets were on sale. I would rather see that, than 
tickets to a boat show I have no interest in.   And I appreciate it MUCH more than the “single women near you” advertisements that used 
to be all over the internet.  

On the flip side- cookies can be used to kind of sabotage the user. Like if I’m looking for flights home I do notice that sometimes 
the prices go up – but if you are looking in incognito mode that’s not the case. 

Again though, companies will do whatever they need to make money. I think if we want the benefits of cookies then we have to allow 
for the tradeoff and just be smart about clearing them before making big purchases. Understanding what cookies are and what information 
they contain will probably help ease users minds. 

To the issue of is it ethical? I don’t really think it matters. I don’t think it’s highly unethical – users probably have to sign some 
sort of agreement discussing the use of cookies. I don’t think it’s overly ethical either, it benefits users in some ways, it benefits 
companies in others. 
